DOC-2085 fix(dataloading): improve doc for Load from External Kafka (3.9?-4.1) (#491)
tigergraph/server-docs: modules/data-loading/partials/kafka/kafka-data-source-details.adoc

[NOTE]
====

> In addition, users can utilize external sources to provide configurations for Kafka connectors. This includes files, Vault, and environment variables. See xref:tigergraph-server:data-loading:externalizing-kafka-configs.adoc[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, users can utilize external sources to provide configurations for Kafka connectors. These sources include files, Vault, and environment variables. See xref:data-loading:externalizing-kafka-configs.adoc[].
```

.Data source configuration for external Kafka
----
{
  "type": "mirrormaker",
  "source.cluster.bootstrap.servers": "<broker_addrs>"
}
----

> * If the source cluster uses SSL, see our documentation xref:tigergraph-server:data-loading:kafka-ssl-security-guide.adoc[]

Reviewer 2: https://graphsql.atlassian.net/browse/DOC-1972?focusedCommentId=152682 see comment for `kafka-ssl-security-guide.adoc`.
* SSL for internal Kafka
* SSL for CRR
* SSL for loading from external Kafka

They should belong to 3 different categories(under 3 different pages) instead of putting them together.

Author: - Let's clarify here. We're not going to cover SSL for CRR here right?
- For internal and external Kafka, I don't see major difference. The "internal" Kafka is set up for testing loading from regular Kafka cluster including external Kafka. Let me know if there's any understanding gap. We can have a short discussion in Tuesday's meeting and get consensus about this with the team.  ( At the moment I still have a couple of JIRA tickets to handle, which also have high priorities).
- I am removing the SASL and the SASL/SSL parameters, because:  without SSL, SASL is not secured. SASL is authentication method, but without encryption, the connection is not secured. So we should simply recommend the users to enable regular SSL to secure the connection between Kafka clusters. User doesn't need to use both SASL + SSL. SSL is enough. And we didn't officially support SASL yet.
- My suggestion is that, for all the configuration/settings in the DOC, we should have already supported the feature and also have test cases covering those configs.

cc @arunramasami , FYI. Any comments regarding this DOC change I am making?

If the source cluster is configured for SSL or SASL protocols, you need to provide the following SSL/SASL credentials in order to communicate with the source cluster.

* If the source cluster uses SASL, you need to upload the keytab of each Kerberos principal to every node of your TigerGraph cluster at the same absolute path.
* If the source cluster uses SSL, see our documentation xref:tigergraph-server:data-loading:kafka-ssl-security-guide.adoc[]
* If the source cluster uses SASL *and* SSL, you need to upload the keytab of each Kerberos principal, as well as the key store and truststore to every node of your TigerGraph cluster.
Each file must be at the same absolute path on all nodes.

> The following configurations are required for admin, producer and consumer. To supply the configuration for the corresponding component, replace `<prefix>` with `source.admin`, `producer`, or `consumer`.

Reviewer 2: Why remove them?

  "source.admin.security.protocol": "SSL",
  "source.admin.ssl.endpoint.identification.algorithm": "none",
  "source.admin.ssl.keystore.location": "/path/to/client.keystore.jks",
  "source.admin.ssl.keystore.password": "******",
  "source.admin.ssl.key.password": "******",
  "source.admin.ssl.truststore.location": "/path/to/client.truststore.jks",
  "source.admin.ssl.truststore.password": "******",

  "producer.security.protocol": "SSL",
  "producer.ssl.endpoint.identification.algorithm": "none",
  "producer.ssl.keystore.location": "/path/to/client.keystore.jks",
  "producer.ssl.keystore.password": "******",
  "producer.ssl.key.password": "******",
  "producer.ssl.truststore.location": "/path/to/client.truststore.jks",
  "producer.ssl.truststore.password": "******"
}
----

===== SASL_PLAINTEXT
Need to configure:

* `<prefix>.security.protocol`
* `<prefix>.sasl.<field>`

[source,json,linenum]
----
{
  "type": "mirrormaker",
  "source.cluster.bootstrap.servers": "<KAFKAURL>:<PORT>",

  "consumer.security.protocol": "SASL_PLAINTEXT",
  "consumer.sasl.mechanism": "<GSSAPI/PLAIN/etc>",

  "source.admin.security.protocol": "SASL_PLAINTEXT",

>   "source.admin.sasl.mechanism": "<GSSAPI/PLAIN/etc>",

Reviewer 3: @pingxieTG  is the `<prefix>.sasl.jaas.config` only needed for third party  security protocol? Or would it also be necessary for the default?

Reviewer 2: `sasl.jaas.config` is required for all mechanisms including the built-ins.
For example: https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/security/authentication/sasl/gssapi/overview.html#clients
Here the GSSAPI has the following config:
```
sasl.jaas.config=com.sun.security.auth.module.Krb5LoginModule required \
    useKeyTab=true \
    storeKey=true \
    keyTab="/etc/security/keytabs/kafka_client.keytab" \
    principal="kafkaclient1@EXAMPLE.COM";
```

  "source.admin.ssl.keystore.location": "/path/to/client.keystore.jks",
  "source.admin.ssl.keystore.password": "******",
  "source.admin.ssl.key.password": "******",
  "source.admin.ssl.truststore.location": "/path/to/client.truststore.jks",
  "source.admin.ssl.truststore.password": "******",

  "producer.security.protocol": "SASL_PLAINTEXT",
  "producer.sasl.mechanism": "<GSSAPI/PLAIN/etc>",
  "producer.ssl.endpoint.identification.algorithm": "none",
  "producer.ssl.keystore.location": "/path/to/client.keystore.jks",
  "producer.ssl.keystore.password": "******",
  "producer.ssl.key.password": "******",
  "producer.ssl.truststore.location": "/path/to/client.truststore.jks",
  "producer.ssl.truststore.password": "******"
}
----

===== Third Party SASL Mechanism
For both `SASL` and `SASL_SSL` when a third party mechanism it is necessary to:

* Include the `<prefix>.sasl.jaas.config` in addition to the `<prefix>.sasl.client.callback.handler.class` in the configuration
* Place the third party jar under `$(gadmin config get System.Approot)/kafka/libs/`

[source,json,linenum]
.Example SASL Configuration with third party mechanism
----

> {

Reviewer 3: @pingxieTG My intention here is to give a proper example of a third party security mechanism for SASL. What optional arguments do we want to show here instead of <GSSAPI/PLAIN/etc> ?

I think the other fields are okay as generics as they are explained in detail in the table of parameters

Reviewer 2: Pls check this example: https://github.com/aws/aws-msk-iam-auth?tab=readme-ov-file#configuring-a-kafka-client-to-use-aws-iam-with-aws_msk_iam-mechanism

> .Data source configuration for external Kafka

Reviewer 3: Line 7

In addition, users can utilize external sources to provide configurations for Kafka connectors. This includes files, Vault, and environment variables. See xref:tigergraph-server:data-loading:externalizing-kafka-configs.adoc[].

* If the source cluster uses SASL *and* SSL, you need to upload the keytab of each Kerberos principal, as well as the key store and truststore to every node of your TigerGraph cluster.
Each file must be at the same absolute path on all nodes.

> The following are generic configurations required for admin, producer and consumer. To supply the configuration for the corresponding component, replace `<prefix>` with `source.admin`, `producer`, or `consumer`.

Reviewer 2: Did you tried it? 
* Are `source.admin`, `producer`, or `consumer` all required? 
* Why `admin` requires `source` prefix but others are not?
* How about using `source.cluster`?

Author: I should have mentioned this earlier: 
* We already have a separate instructions on how to set up security (SSL), so user can just follow that instruction to set up SSL, by gadmin enabling a couple of flags, setting certificates etc.;
* This example is simply about avro/mm2, so let's try to make this example as simple as possible;
* This document was provided when SSL is not supported; now given SSL is already supported, we can just recommend user to use SSL if they are concerned about security; 
* All these settings are covered by our current regress test, e.g., cqrs_cluster 101. 
* I would recommend to remove all the wording including SASL from the document. We have a plan to support SASL, but we haven't implemented/supported it yet.

Let me know your thoughts. 
Thanks!

Reviewer 2: > All these settings are covered by our current regress test, e.g., cqrs_cluster 101.

* cqrs_cluster 101 is for CRR with SSL, not loading from external Kafka. The SSL setting should be different because the CRR SSL setting is auto-generated.
* In the auto-generated CRR config you wrote, it is using `source.cluster.ssl` instead of `source.admin`, `producer` or `consumer`

Author: - No. cqrs_cluster 101 includes two test cases: test1.sh and test2.sh. test1.sh is for generic mm2; test2.sh is for crr. 
- When I designed SSL for MM2/CRR, connector_manager was used to set up ssl configuration settings to improve the usability. 
- You seemed to ask similar question when you reviewed the SSL PR, here is one of the comments:  https://github.com/tigergraph/cqrs/pull/3001/files#r1432225187 . Basically, Kafka(KafkaConn) maintains precedence of SSL settings: (source or target).cluster.ssl > admin/producer/consumer.ssl etc.. In the design, I just made it simple: all admin/producer/consumer share the same SSL settings to make things simple.

Reviewer 2: > Basically, Kafka(KafkaConn) maintains precedence of SSL settings: (source or target).cluster.ssl > admin/producer/consumer.ssl etc.

* Have we explained this to the user? That's why I'm asking to improve the doc.
* Even if we use `admin`, `consumer` and `producer` separately, there's still some mistakes in the doc: why `source.admin` but not no `source.` for `consumer` and `producer`?

Each file must be at the same absolute path on all nodes.

The following configurations are required for admin, producer and consumer. Basically Kafka allows SSL settings overriding, it respects security settings in precedence order: generic.ssl.setting < source/target.cluster.ssl.setting < admin/producer/consumer.ssl.setting.

If both source and target clusters are sharing the same SSL settings, user can set generic settings for both source/target clusters and all the rols(admin/producer/consumer). For example, user can set "ssl.keystore.location=/path/to/key/store" instead of "source.cluster.ssl.keystore.location=/path/to/key/store", or "admin.ssl.keystore.location=/path/to/key/store", or even "source.cluster.admin.ssl.keystore.location=/path/to/key/store".

If source and target clusters have different SSL settings, to make things simple, users can simply set cluster wide SSL configs, e.g., "target.cluster.ssl.truststore.password=/password/for/trust/store", instead of "target.cluster.producer.ssl.trust.password=/password/for/trust/store".

> To supply the configuration for the corresponding component, replace `<prefix>` with `source(/or target).cluster`, `source(or target).cluster.admin(or producer, consumer)`, `admin`, `producer`, or `consumer`.

Reviewer 2: Actually users only need to configure for `consumer.xxx`(consume from source kafka cluster), `source.admin.xxx`(list topics of the source kafka cluster), `producer.xxx`(produce the read offset to source kafka cluster).

We'd better give at least 4 examples for PLAINTEXT, SSL, SASL_PLAINTEXT, SASL_SSL, which is given by `<prefix>.security.protocol`:
* Plaintext(no ssl and sasl), in this case, no need to configure consumer, source.admin and producer:
```
{
    "type": "mirrormaker",
    "source.cluster.bootstrap.servers": "<KAFKAURL>:<PORT>"
}
```
* SSL only(configure `<prefix>.security.protocol` and `<prefix>.ssl.xxx`)
```
{
    "type": "mirrormaker",
    "source.cluster.bootstrap.servers": "<KAFKAURL>:<PORT>",

    "consumer.security.protocol": "SSL",
    "consumer.ssl.endpoint.identification.algorithm": "none",
    "consumer.ssl.keystore.location": "/path/to/client.keystore.jks",
    "consumer.ssl.keystore.password": "******",
    "consumer.ssl.key.password": "******",
    "consumer.ssl.truststore.location": "/path/to/client.truststore.jks",
    "consumer.ssl.truststore.password": "******",

    "source.admin.security.protocol": "SSL",
    "source.admin.ssl.endpoint.identification.algorithm": "none",
    "source.admin.ssl.keystore.location": "/path/to/client.keystore.jks",
    "source.admin.ssl.keystore.password": "******",
    "source.admin.ssl.key.password": "******",
    "source.admin.ssl.truststore.location": "/path/to/client.truststore.jks",
    "source.admin.ssl.truststore.password": "******",

    "producer.security.protocol": "SSL",
    "producer.ssl.endpoint.identification.algorithm": "none",
    "producer.ssl.keystore.location": "/path/to/client.keystore.jks",
    "producer.ssl.keystore.password": "******",
    "producer.ssl.key.password": "******",
    "producer.ssl.truststore.location": "/path/to/client.truststore.jks",
    "producer.ssl.truststore.password": "******"
}
```
* SASL_PLAINTEXT(configure `<prefix>.security.protocol` and `<prefix>.sasl.xxx`)
```
{
    "type": "mirrormaker",
    "source.cluster.bootstrap.servers": "<KAFKAURL>:<PORT>",

    "consumer.security.protocol": "SASL_PLAINTEXT",
    "consumer.sasl.mechanism": "GSSAPI/PLAIN/etc.",
    "consumer.sasl.jaas.config": "<jaas_conf_content>",
    "consumer.sasl.client.callback.handler.class": "optional, need to put third party jar under `$(gadmin config get System.Approot)/kafka/libs/`",

    "source.admin.security.protocol": "SASL_PLAINTEXT",
    "source.admin.sasl.mechanism": "GSSAPI/PLAIN/etc.",
    "source.admin.sasl.jaas.config": "<jaas_conf_content>",
    "source.admin.sasl.client.callback.handler.class": "optional, need to put third party jar under `$(gadmin config get System.Approot)/kafka/libs/`",

    "producer.security.protocol": "SASL_PLAINTEXT",
    "producer.sasl.mechanism": "GSSAPI/PLAIN/etc.",
    "producer.sasl.jaas.config": "<jaas_conf_content>",
    "producer.sasl.client.callback.handler.class": "optional, need to put third party jar under `$(gadmin config get System.Approot)/kafka/libs/`"
}
```
* SASL_SSL(configure `<prefix>.security.protocol`, `<prefix>.sasl.xxx` and `<prefix>.ssl.xxx`)
```
{
    "type": "mirrormaker",
    "source.cluster.bootstrap.servers": "<KAFKAURL>:<PORT>",

    "consumer.security.protocol": "SASL_SSL",
    "consumer.sasl.mechanism": "GSSAPI/PLAIN/etc.",
    "consumer.sasl.jaas.config": "<jaas_conf_content>",
    "consumer.sasl.client.callback.handler.class": "optional, need to put third party jar under `$(gadmin config get System.Approot)/kafka/libs/`",
    "consumer.ssl.endpoint.identification.algorithm": "none",
    "consumer.ssl.keystore.location": "/path/to/client.keystore.jks",
    "consumer.ssl.keystore.password": "******",
    "consumer.ssl.key.password": "******",
    "consumer.ssl.truststore.location": "/path/to/client.truststore.jks",
    "consumer.ssl.truststore.password": "******",

    "source.admin.security.protocol": "SASL_PLAINTEXT",
    "source.admin.sasl.mechanism": "GSSAPI/PLAIN/etc.",
    "source.admin.sasl.jaas.config": "<jaas_conf_content>",
    "source.admin.sasl.client.callback.handler.class": "optional, need to put third party jar under `$(gadmin config get System.Approot)/kafka/libs/`",
    "source.admin.ssl.endpoint.identification.algorithm": "none",
    "source.admin.ssl.keystore.location": "/path/to/client.keystore.jks",
    "source.admin.ssl.keystore.password": "******",
    "source.admin.ssl.key.password": "******",
    "source.admin.ssl.truststore.location": "/path/to/client.truststore.jks",
    "source.admin.ssl.truststore.password": "******",

    "producer.security.protocol": "SASL_PLAINTEXT",
    "producer.sasl.mechanism": "GSSAPI/PLAIN/etc.",
    "producer.sasl.jaas.config": "<jaas_conf_content>",
    "producer.sasl.client.callback.handler.class": "optional, need to put third party jar under `$(gadmin config get System.Approot)/kafka/libs/`",
    "producer.ssl.endpoint.identification.algorithm": "none",
    "producer.ssl.keystore.location": "/path/to/client.keystore.jks",
    "producer.ssl.keystore.password": "******",
    "producer.ssl.key.password": "******",
    "producer.ssl.truststore.location": "/path/to/client.truststore.jks",
    "producer.ssl.truststore.password": "******"
}
```

> For example, to specify `GSSAPI` as the SASL mechanism for consumer, include `"consumer.sasl.mecahnism": "GSSAPI"` in the data source configuration.

Reviewer 3: typo -> mechanism
